The questions below assume the Bash shell. If you prefer to give answers pertaining to a different shell, please specify which and make it clear for each question.

Name 6 different Linux distributions, and state which major packaging format they use (e.g. RPM or DEB).
Give a brief overview of the different sections of the Man Pages (note: not the parts of an individual page NAME, SYNOPSIS etc).
Describe how you would change the shell prompt to make it BOLD and display in the colour red.
Given a directory of files, how would you list the files while sorting them in file size in descending order? And in ascending order?
Starting in your home directory (on 'chuck'), list at least two ways to change to the '/tmp' directory.
On the command-line, give at least 2 examples of how would you delete a file called '-i' (without the qoutes).
Give at least 2 ways to show the contents of a directory called "My Docs" using 'ls -l'. I.e. how do you get around SPACEs in a file/folder name using the shell.
Using the 'date' command, how would you display the current date/time in the following format: YYYYMMDDHHMMSS. How would you display the date in that format from exactly 1 week ago from the time you run the command?
What is the Unix Epoch? How would you display it using the 'date' command?
Using the 'cal' command, how would you display the full calendar year, with weeks starting in a Monday?
What is the purpose of the PATH environment variable. How would you add a new location to it?
Using shell wildcards (fileglobs), how would you list:
All files starting with the letter k?
All files starting with the letter k, with a .txt extension?
All files starting with an upper case letter?
All files with 4 characters, where the third character is a number?
What is the purpose of the umask? How would you ensure that every new file that you create has the following permissions: full access for you, read-only access for your group, and no access for anyone else?
How would you change the behaviour of the delete command to prompt for confirmation before deleting files?
